.\" Copyright (C) 2020 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH fkre 1 "June 2020"
.SH NAME
fkre (Flesch-Kincaid Reading Ease)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fkre\ [\-\-html] [\-\-version] {filename}
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfkre\fR is utility for estimating the Flesh-Kincaid readability ease
score for English-language text, and other readability metrics.
It has an HTML mode that
can exclude HTML tags that would otherwise confuse the calculation. In
HTML mode the utility can also count the number of words in each
subheading, allowing the detection of over-long sections.

\fIfkre\fR estimates the number of passive-voice expressions, which many
writes like to avoid where practicable. 

.SH THE FLESCH-KINCARD SCORE

The FK readability ease score is calculated as

206.835 - 1.015 * words_per_sentence - 84.6 * syllables_per_word.

Most English texts have scores in the range 10-100, although both
higher and lower scores can be contrived. "A cat sat on a mat"
scores 116. In practice, most users of the FK score aim for
values of 60 or higher when writing for a general readership. 
Specialist and scientific publications might be considered quite
accessible by their readers with an FK score higher than 30.  

Note that the FK score considers only sentence length and word
structure. Other factors also affect readability, such as the
use of subheadings. `fkre` reports some of these metrics separately,
if sufficient information is available. 

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.BI -t,\-\-html
.LP
HTML format -- exclude HTML tags from counting.


.SH "AUTHOR"

\fIfkre\fR is maintained by Kevin Boone. For more information see
https://github.com/kevinboone/fkre.

.\" end of file
